# Tic-Tac-Toe
this project is a pretty interesting one. After learning java graphics and GUIs, I wanted to try to make an interactive tic tac toe board, one where the user can play against the computer. I figured this could be easy enough, considering how simple of a game tic tac toe is. A majority of the code is pretty simple, it uses buttons and button presses to determine what the board, a 2D array, looks like, using 1’s and -1’s to represent X and O, and 0’s to represent blank spaces. The program has a method that checks to see if there is a winner after each click, which is important for the computer to be able to understand how to “win”. The actual algorithm that the program uses is the complicated part. It uses a minimax algorithm to determine the move for the computer, which is an algorithm that essentially goes through the possible moves and sees which ones lead to a majority of favorable outcomes. It does this by simply trying moves and calling itself to try more moves, and looks to “maximize” its score. In the code, winning for player 1 is defined as “score = -1” where player 2 has a score of 1. Because of this, and the fact that the computer can play either player 1 or player 2 (dependant on if the user chooses to go first or second), it has two algorithms in minimax, one to maximize and one to minimize, and the “isMax” boolean determines which needs to be called. These two are also necessary because minimax works based on the best moves of the opponent as well, so the maximizing algorithm calls the minimizing algorithm and vice versa. All in all, I don’t think I can quite do the explanation of the algorithm justice, and there are probably others who can give a better rundown of how it works, but the code works perfectly and the AI doesn’t lose, always playing optimally.
